  Adjectives describe or modify—that is, they limit or restrict the meaning of—nouns and pronouns. They may name qualities of all 
kinds: huge, red, angry, tremendous, unique, rare, etc.
  An adjective usually comes right before a noun: "a red dress," "fifteen people." When an adjective follows a linking verb such 
as be or seem, it is called a predicate adjective: "That building is huge," "The workers seem happy." Most adjectives can be 
used as predicate adjectives, although some are always used before a noun. Similarly, a few adjectives can only be used as 
predicate adjectives and are never used before a noun.
  Some adjectives describe qualities that can exist in different amounts or degrees. To do this, the adjective will either change 
in form (usually by adding -er or -est) or will be used with words like more, most, very, slightly, etc.: "the older girls," 
"the longest day of the year," "a very strong feeling," "more expensive than that one." Other adjectives describe qualities 
that do not vary—"nuclear energy," "a medical doctor"—and do not change form. 
  The four demonstrative adjectives—this, that, these, and those—are identical to the demonstrative pronouns. They are used to 
distinguish the person or thing being described from others of the same category or class. This and these describe people or 
things that are nearby, or in the present. That and those are used to describe people or things that are not here, not nearby, 
or in the past or future. These adjectives, like the definite and indefinite articles (a, an, and the), always come before any 
other adjectives that modify a noun.
  An indefinite adjective describes a whole group or class of people or things, or a person or thing that is not identified or 
familiar. The most common indefinite adjectives are: all, another, any, both, each, either, enough, every, few, half, least, 
less, little, many, more, most, much, neither, one (and two, three, etc.), other, several, some, such, whole. 
  The interrogative adjectives—primarily which, what, and whose—are used to begin questions. They can also be used as interrogative pronouns.
  The possessive adjectives—my, your, his, her, its, our, their—tell you who has, owns, or has experienced something, as in "I 
admired her candor, "Our cat is 14 years old," and "They said their trip was wonderful." 
  When two or more adjectives are used before a noun, they should be put in proper order. Any article (a, an, the), demonstrative 
adjective (that, these, etc.), indefinite adjective (another, both, etc.), or possessive adjective (her, our, etc.) always comes 
first. If there is a number, it comes first or second. True adjectives always come before attributive nouns. The ordering of true 
adjectives will vary, but the following order is the most common: opinion word size age shape color nationality material.
  Participles are often used like ordinary adjectives. They may come before a noun or after a linking verb. A present participle 
(an -ing word) describes the person or thing that causes something; for example, a boring conversation is one that bores you. 
A past participle (usually an -ed word) describes the person or thing who has been affected by something; for example, a bored 
person is one who has been affected by boredom.



  Adverbs are words that usually modify—that is, they limit or restrict the meaning of—verbs. They may also modify adjectives, 
other adverbs, phrases, or even entire sentences.
  An adverb answers the question when?, where?, how?, how much?, how long?, or how often?
  Most adverbs are formed by adding -ly to an adjective. If the adjective already ends in -y, the -y usually changes to -i.
  There are a few different kinds of adverbs. The words when, where, why, and how are called interrogative adverbs when they begin a question.
  The relative adverbs—where, when, and why (how is sometimes included as well)—introduce subordinate clauses (also called dependent clauses), 
which are clauses that do not form simple sentences by themselves.
  When an adverb modifies a whole sentence or clause, it is called a sentence adverb. Words such as fortunately, frankly, 
hopefully, and luckily are generally used as sentence adverbs and usually express the speaker's feelings about the content 
of the sentence. Such adverbs normally come at the beginning of a sentence, but may also come in the middle or at the end.


Conjunctions are words that join together other words or groups of words. 
A coordinating conjunction connects words, phrases, and clauses of equal importance. The main coordinating conjunctions are 
and, or, and but.
When placed at the beginning of a sentence, a coordinating conjunction may also link two sentences or paragraphs.
A subordinating conjunction introduces a subordinate clause (a clause that does not form a simple sentence by itself) and joins 
it to a main clause (a clause that can be used as a simple sentence by itself).   She waited until they were seated.
Some conjunctions are used in pairs. The most common pairs are either ... or, both ... and, neither ... nor, and not only ... but (also). 
Some adverbs, such as afterwards, consequently, for example, however, nonetheless, and therefore, act like conjunctions by linking 
either two main clauses separated by a semicolon, or two separate sentences. They express some effect that the first clause or 
sentence has on the second one. 


Determiners are words such as the, my, this, some, twenty, each, any, which are used before nouns.
Articles: a/an, the
Demonstratives: this, that, these, those
Possessives: my, your, his, her, its, our, their, x’s (possessive ’s)
Quantifiers: (a) few, fewer, (a) little, many, much, more, most, some, any, etc.
Numbers: one, two, three, etc.
(a) few, fewer, fewest, every, most, that, (a) little, half, much, the, (an)other, her, my, their, a/an, his, neither, these,
all, its, no, this, any, Jim’s, Anna’s, etc., one, two, three, etc., those, both, least, our, what, each, less, several, which,
either, many, some, whose, enough, more, such, your


  Nouns make up the largest class of words in most languages, including English. A noun is a word that refers to a thing (book), 
a person (Betty Crocker), an animal (cat), a place (Omaha), a quality (softness), an idea (justice), or an action (yodeling). 
It's usually a single word, but not always: cake, shoes, school bus, and time and a half are all nouns.
  There are common nouns and proper nouns. A common noun refers to a person, place, or thing but is not the name of a particular 
person, place, or thing. Examples are animal, sunlight, and happiness. A proper noun is the name of a particular person, place, 
or thing; it usually begins with a capital letter: Abraham Lincoln, Argentina, and World War I are all proper nouns.
  A collective noun is a noun that names a group of people or things, such as flock or squad. It's sometimes unclear whether the 
verb for a collective noun should be singular or plural. In the United States, such nouns as company, team, herd, public, and 
class, as well as the names of companies, teams, etc., are treated as singular, but in the United Kingdom they are often treated 
as plural: (US) "The team has been doing well this season." vs. (British) "The team have been doing well this season."
  Gerunds are nouns that are identical to the present participle (-ing form) of a verb, as in "I enjoy swimming more than running."
  An attributive noun is a noun that modifies another noun that immediately follows it, such as business in business meeting. These 
nouns look like adjectives but they're not.
  A count noun is a noun that can be used after a or an or after a number (or another word that means "more than one"). Count 
nouns have both singular and plural forms and can be used with both singular and plural verb forms.
  A mass noun (or noncount noun) refers to something that cannot be counted. Mass nouns are normally not used after the words 
a or an or after a number. They have only one form and are used with singular verb forms, as in "Portuguese is one of the 
languages they speak," and "The information was unclear."
  Some nouns are not count or mass nouns. Nouns which only ever refer to one thing are called singular nouns: "Saturn is the 
sixth planet from the sun," "We heard a terrible din in the alley." And a plural noun refers to more than one person or 
thing, or sometimes to something that has two main parts. Plural nouns have only one form and are used with plural verb 
forms: "Townspeople are invited to a forum on the project," "These scissors are dull."



  Prepositions show direction, location, or time, or introduce an object. They are usually followed by an object—a noun, 
noun phrase, or pronoun. The most common prepositions are little and very common:
at, by, for, from, in, of, on, to, with
  Prepositions typically show how the noun, noun phrase, or pronoun is related to another word in the sentence.
  Prepositions with their objects form prepositional phrases. A preposition may appear at the end of a sentence or clause, b
ut only when its object comes earlier. 
  Many prepositions (such as past, under, off, along, and on) may also act as adverbs. A few (including before, after, for, and 
since) may act as conjunctions (words that join together other words or groups of words).


  A pronoun is a word that is used instead of a noun or noun phrase. Pronouns refer to either a noun that has already been mentioned
or to a noun that does not need to be named specifically.
  The most common pronouns are the personal pronouns, which refer to the person or people speaking or writing (first person),
the person or people being spoken to (second person), or other people or things (third person). Like nouns, personal pronouns
can function as either the subject of a verb or the object of a verb or preposition: "She likes him, but he loves her." Most
of the personal pronouns have different subject and object forms:
  There are a number of other types of pronouns. The interrogative pronouns—particularly what, which, who, whom, and whose—introduce 
questions for which a noun is the answer, as in "Which do you prefer?" 
  Possessive pronouns refer to things or people that belong to someone. The main possessive pronouns are mine, yours, his, hers, 
its, ours, and theirs.
 The four demonstrative pronouns—this, that, these, and those—distinguish the person or thing being referred to from other people 
or things; they are identical to the demonstrative adjectives. 
  Relative pronouns introduce a subordinate clause, a part of a sentence that includes a subject and verb but does not form a 
sentence by itself. The main relative pronouns are that, which, who, whom, what, and whose.
  Reflexive pronouns refer back to the subject of a sentence or clause and are formed by adding -self or -selves to a personal 
pronoun or possessive adjective, as in myself, herself, ourselves, and itself.
  Indefinite pronouns, such as everybody, either, none, and something, do not refer to a specific person or thing, and typically 
refer to an unidentified or unfamiliar person or thing.
  The words it and there can also be used like pronouns when the rules of grammar require a subject but no noun is actually 
being referred to. Both are usually used at the beginning of a sentence or clause, as in "It was almost noon" and "There 
is some cake left." These are sometimes referred to as expletives.


Verbs are words that show an action (sing), occurrence (develop), or state of being (exist). Almost every sentence requires 
a verb. The basic form of a verb is known as its infinitive. The forms call, love, break, and go are all infinitives.
The basic form is called the infinitive. Picture it as the verb with no makeup, in jeans and a t-shirt. It's the 
stripped-down form, like yodel or go.
The present tense is used to talk about something that is true now and most of the time. It's also used for something that 
happens regularly. The present tense always* uses the infinitive form except in the third-person singular


Subject:
subjects are technically nouns, noun phrases, or pronouns. Note that the subject usually comes first. In the fifth sentence, 
though, it comes after the verb is. This is because the there at the beginning of the sentence is really just a place holder. 
Note too that not every sentence has a visible subject.

Clause:
A clause is a part of a sentence that has its own subject and verb.

Predicate:
Predicates are usually everything in a sentence or clause that's not the subject. They express what is said of the subject, 
and usually consist of a verb and other stuff that's not the subject.  If clauses are joined by a conjunction like but, or, 
and, or although, the conjunction isn't part of the predicate. 

Object:
While the subject performs the action (or does the doing or being) in a sentence, an object is on the receiving end. There 
are two main kinds of objects: direct and indirect. Direct objects are more common. They indicate the person or thing that 
receives the action of a verb

An indirect object can only occur if there's already a direct object, and it only occurs after some verbs. An indirect object 
indicates the person or thing that receives what is being done or given—that is, who or what is on the receiving end of the 
direct object. It comes between the verb and the direct object
